<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Introductory</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
<h2 epub:type="title">Introductory</h2>

<p>In April, 1903, while I was visiting in Shanghai, I received a
letter from Mrs. Conger, wife of the Minister of the United States
to Peking, in which she said there was a question of Her Majesty the
Empress Dowager’s having her portrait painted, and asking me if such
a thing should be arranged would I be willing to come to Peking and
undertake it. Mrs. Conger hoped, if the project should materialize,
that Her Majesty might later consent to send the portrait to the
Exposition at St. Louis. She thought such a portrait would be of great
interest to the American people and might prove an attractive feature
to the Exposition, in which she and Mr. Conger were, naturally, much
interested. She also felt, as she had had an opportunity of seeing a
good deal of the Empress Dowager, that if the world could see a true
likeness of her, it might modify the generally accepted idea which
prevailed as to Her Majesty’s character.</p>

<p>I answered Mrs. Conger’s letter, saying I should be delighted to
undertake the work, should it be decided upon, and I awaited further
developments. The idea of sitting for her portrait met with Her
Majesty’s approval, and she said she would arrange an Audience and set
a day for beginning. But the “mills of”—Chinese



Officialdom “grind slowly,” and not until July did Mrs. Conger receive
an official notification from the Wai-Wu-Pu (Chinese Foreign Office)
requesting “Her Excellency Mrs. Conger to present the American artist,
Miss Carl, to Her Imperial Majesty on the fifth day of August, for the
purpose of painting a portrait of Her Majesty.” Mrs. Conger immediately
informed me of the reception of this document, and I left Shanghai for
Peking on the 29th of July. I was cordially received, on my arrival in
Peking, by Mr. and Mrs. Conger at the American Legation, and on the
fifth of August was presented by Mrs. Conger to Her Majesty the Empress
Dowager at the Summer Palace in private Audience.</p>

<p>As it was a great innovation in Chinese customs and a breaking away
from long-established tradition for an Imperial portrait to be painted,
there was no precedent to follow and all arrangements were of the
vaguest kind; and when I went into the Palace for my first Audience, I
did not know whether I would have one sitting or ten, and no one else
seemed to have any more definite information. All was uncertainty.
Everything depended upon Her Majesty’s inclination, and future
developments must be awaited. I felt that I was really going into the
Palace on trial and that my reception and the work depended upon the
fantasy and whims of a great Personage from whom, according to current
reports, I had but little to expect. On the day of my first Audience, I
was told at the Foreign Office that Her Majesty was to give me but one
sitting, hence it was not in a very tranquil state of mind that I went
up to be presented to the



Great Empress Dowager, Tze-Shi! But all this was changed when I saw
her. She received me kindly, was very gracious. A Palace was set aside
for me, and every facility afforded me for my work: during my sojourn
at the Chinese Court I painted not only the portrait for the Exposition
at St. Louis, but three others of Her Majesty.</p>

<p>Unique as my experiences at the different Palaces of Their
Celestial Majesties were, I concluded, after I had lived at Court
for a few months, I would never make these experiences public. The
Empress Dowager received me in so friendly a manner, I met with such
consideration at her hands and such unfailing courtesy from all with
whom I came in contact, I felt I should requite this kindness by
an equal consideration, and that it was my duty to respect Chinese
prejudices and conform to their ideas of “Propriety” by refraining from
any relation of my charming experiences.</p>

<p>After I returned to America, I was constantly seeing in newspapers
(and hearing of) statements ascribed to me which I never made. Her
Majesty was represented as having stood over me in threatening
attitudes, forcing me to represent her as a young and beautiful woman!
It was reported that she refused to give me any compensation for the
portraits, and a number of other statements, equally false, were
daily appearing in the papers. The London “Times,” in speaking of the
Empress Dowager, said: “Some one has said ‘she has the soul of a tiger
in the body of a woman,’ and Miss Carl found the old lady shrewd and
tempestuous.” The latter statement, which I never



made, seemed to me enough to have on my shoulders, but the article
was copied in American papers and I was put down as the author of the
first, as well as of the second statement. The power of the Press has
become such that it cannot be ignored. It is of no avail to say nothing
in such a case as mine; when you do this, words are put into your
mouth and sentiments ascribed to you at the will of the newsmongers.
If a correction be made, it never seems to get the same circulation
or publicity as the first statement. These erroneous statements
continue to appear, and I have finally decided that, in justice to my
August Patroness as well as to my humbler self, it is incumbent upon
me to correct them, and it seems to me the only proper way to do so
is to write a full and true relation of my life at the Palace and my
experiences while painting the portraits of Her Majesty the Empress
Dowager.</p>

<p>I know I publish this account at the risk of offending the
sensibilities of my Chinese friends, for many of them will never
know what called it forth. I know that by so doing I may change any
favorable opinion they may have formed as to my good-breeding and
discretion. I was on sufficiently intimate terms with Her Majesty and
the Ladies of the Court to know that this account will be looked upon
by them as an “indiscretion,” to say the least of it.</p>

<p>In this story of my life at the Palace, I must naturally give some
description of Their Majesties and necessarily make some comment
upon their characters. In doing this, I will transgress another
long-established rule of Chinese Propriety, which makes any comment,



favorable or unfavorable, upon the Sacred Persons of Their Majesties,
a breach of etiquette. No act of theirs is ever criticized, no report
in reference to them is ever explained, no slander about them is ever
refuted by loyal Chinese, and the generality of Chinese are loyal. Thus
the falsest statements, not being refuted by those in a position to
know, gain in credence until they are reported as facts.</p>

<p>If my comment on Their Majesties and discussion of their acts be
favorable, this will be no palliation from the Chinese standpoint. Any
sort of comment will be looked upon as a breach of hospitality. I have
absolutely nothing to gain, should I suppress any disagreeable facts I
may have learned as to Her Majesty. Should I be willing to sacrifice
the truth, in order to please my Chinese friends, this would avail me
nothing, for should my account of Her Majesty be construed by them into
an apology for her, I would be considered most presumptuous and the
enormity of my offense aggravated. Thus I am between two fires. Those
who read my account may imagine I am trying to justify Her Majesty and
thereby gain her favor; and should the Chinese put this construction
on it, my indiscretion will become an offense. Knowing all this, and
with the memory of the charming consideration I received at the Chinese
Court, I nevertheless feel it is my duty to publish a simple and
truthful narrative of my experiences, and I hope I may be pardoned for
thus breaking Chinese conventions.</p>

<p>The Boxer rebellion was a frequent topic of conversation at the
Palace and I heard a great deal about it from the Ladies of the Court.
It was not considered



at all indiscreet to ask questions on this subject, and I did not
hesitate to inform myself by asking about things I wished to know.
If it be true, as the philosophers say, that “the proper study of
mankind is man under his own environment,” I had an opportunity of
studying Her Majesty on the right principles. My account of her should,
therefore, have some little value, for I am the only European who has
ever had a chance to study this remarkable woman in her own milieu, or
to look upon the facts of her life from the standpoint within her own
circle.</p>

<p>In this simple relation of what I saw of the customs, religious
rites and ceremonies, I have also preferred to rest upon my own
personal interpretation of the same, rather than to study the learned
explanations of the many clever Sinologues, whose works abound. These
works may be consulted by those who desire to enter more deeply into
things. I had no time to make a comprehensive study of any works on
the subject, and I purposely have read nothing and consulted no books
on China, wishing to give a fresh impression. As all their curious
ceremonies were a matter of course to the Chinese, they had become so
petrified by long use and tradition, as to have, in many instances,
lost their original signification to most of those who went through
them. I could thus get very little help from the Chinese and was forced
to put my own interpretation upon things. I feel that, with my limited
capacities, and my inexperience as a writer, the only reason for my
entering this field at all lies in the interest of what I saw, as I saw
it. Notwithstanding the attitude of the Court in this matter, I have
decided to run the



risk of incurring their displeasure and reprobation, for I feel assured
that what I have to say may serve to clear up certain misapprehensions
and place Her Majesty the Empress Dowager in more favorable light.
What follows is but the simple narration, the unsophisticated
interpretation, of an observant painter.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
